# An Interesting Command Prompt Bug
So I was browsing through YouTube when I stumbled upon [this comment](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PKoZT6seS6w&lc=UgyCCOQ3cQg69wWVHeN4AaABAg) in one of FlyTech's self-made Windows easter eggs videos:
> I think I might have discovered a real easter egg.
> 
> If you type “cmd \| cmd” into a command prompt, you get a “glitched” command prompt, where every “block” of output (line by line) is ran as a new command, until it reaches the end of the block. For example, if you typed “echo Hello World”, it would echo “Hello World”, after that, attempting to run “Hello World” as a command. However, for some reason if the output doesn’t include backslashes then it will say “Access is denied” instead of what would actually come up if you typed “Hello World” into the prompt (it would tell you it’s not a valid file/directory/program/batch script, obviously).
> 
> Anyways, that’s not the easter egg itself. If you type “exit” into this “glitched” prompt, not only will it exit, but before that, it will display an output saying “More?”. I believe this occurs if you attempt to run commands after the prompt should have exited. I haven’t the foggiest idea on how piping exactly works, though, that’s just my theory on why the easter egg occurs if you do this.

If you don't know who FlyTech is, go check out his channel on YouTube! He makes Windows experiment videos which are very fun to watch if you wanna learn more about Windows.

Anyways, here's the shortened version: If you type `cmd|cmd` into a Windows command prompt, you get a glitched version of the command prompt. In this version every line of output is ran as a new command. If you type `exit`, it prints `More?` before exiting into the regular command prompt. Although he says it's an easter egg, by the looks of it, it's definitely not.  
I've made a one-line command you can run in a Command Prompt and the Run (Win + R) box (it even has a convinient message when you exit):
```
cmd /c cmd|cmd&echo ----------------------------&echo Exited from cursed Command Prompt.&echo Press any key to exit...&pause>nul
```

## Investigating the bug
Currently why this works in the first place is hard to know, as the Command Prompt needs a `/c` or `/k` before running.  
Interestingly, I did try `cmd|cmd /c`. At first there was nothing. But when pressing Enter it prints `The process tried to write to a nonexistent pipe.`, and it does that every time you press Enter. Interestingly, pressing Ctrl + C/Ctrl + Break prints the string thrice, and eventually it will return to the normal Command Prompt. Typing any command in only prints the same string thrice again. Typing `exit` works, though.  
`cmd|cmd /k` has the same effect as `cmd|cmd`, but there's no copyright and version text displayed.

### Checking the claims
First, this commenter says that typing `echo Hello World` would print `Hello World`, and then attempt to run it as a command. But they also say that if the output doesn't include backslashes then it'll say `Access is denied.` instead of the usual `'<name>' is not recognized as an internal or external command, operable program or batch file.`

Now, `Access is denied` or error 5, happens when a command or an operation requires elevation (administrator privileges). But `Hello World` doesn't require elevation to run as a command, so what's happening here?

Turns out: It's not running `Hello World` as a command, it's actually running *the prompt itself* as a command! For example, if I run `echo Hello world` in `C:\test`, it'll run the prompt itself plus the command's output as a command, so it's running the command `C:\test>Hello world`. The greater than sign means "execute the command specified before the sign, then save the output into the file with the name specified after the sign".  
I managed to prove this by writing a batch script named `test.bat` in my testing folder, creating a folder named `test` in the same folder, `cd`ing into the `test` folder, then running `echo test.txt`. Indeed, now there's a file named `test.txt` in the `test` folder with the expected output of the `test.bat` script in the parent directory.

Next, the `More?` output upon exiting. I did some research and found out that the `More?` message is literally the effect of a backslash in Python, but it's a caret (`^`) and not a backslash. I have no idea why that message appeared, but the normal prompt is right under the `More?`, which is not supposed to happen, there should be a blank line between the two lines. But the cause is actually because the first newline is printed right next to the `More?` message. It's even more obvious if you run my one-line command above.
